hmm all right here we go how are you
Zebulon good to see you good to see you
how did you get involved with the cove
what was the the history behind that
when I give you the long version Shore
there's a good friend of mine Jim Clark
the guy that started Netscape Silicon
Graphics WebMD I wanted a film I was
doing a story for Geographic back in
1995 I think it came out I was on the
information revolution and Jim Clark was
sort of the you know the Steve Jobs of
my generation right and he don't wanna
be photographed he's just too busy and
then I started working for Fortune
magazine and he had built a boat at the
world's tallest mast I think at that
point and it was went over to Amsterdam
to film him and we hit it off and it you
know he said would you teach me how to
be a good photographer and you know he
made three companies from scratch worth
over a billion dollars and I said well
if you teach me how to be a billionaire
I'll teach you how to be a great
photographer
and then we would travel all over the
world taking pictures for about the next
ten years and we did mostly underwater
photography he built the best underwater
camera ever made by an order of
magnitude it was just a piece of work as
Jim doesn't do anything half-ass and
every time we would go to a dive site
and come back to it you see this
shifting baseline where there's less
fish there's less coral in fact he took
me to the place and pop into Guinea
celui i'ma take it to the best place
I've ever seen it's an infant Papa New
Guinea we flew over there all day to get
there a day and a half to sail we dive
on the GPS coordinates and it's rubble
is completely gone and this would happen
not all the time but a lot we don't know
what the you know the insults work had
been dynamite fishing could have been it
could have been anything who knows what
it was but the I think it's the third
time that we were in the Galapagos Jim
turned to me and said something like you
know somebody should do something about
this we saw fishermen illegally fishing
in a Marine Sanctuary and sort of
empowered by the success that he's had
in business and seeing how he could
change the world and his business
I said how about you and I he said what
he mean it so we'll use your money and
my eye and we'll make films and the
first well then I you know so I'm
jumping careers at this stage I'm going
from a being fairly successful you know
still photographer really busy to a
career where I had really no business
doing it I never really made a film
before not even really a short film and
so I'm you know nervous I'm feeling sort
of full of myself like I'm I started
this great career we're down the
Caribbean on a boat and my kid starts
with Jim on vacation with our families
and my kid starts playing on the beach
with another kid it happens to be Steven
Spielberg's kid so Steven comes over
onto the boat to meet Jim and I he he
made Jurassic Park using Jim's computers
with you know Silicon Graphics and after
I had Steven alone for a few seconds I
said do you have any advice for a
first-time filmmaker he said you said
yeah never make a movie involving boats
or animals oh great and of course the
first film we did was the cove but
you're not you don't have actors and
special effects and boats and animals
it's just a part of the story it's not
like you're like with him I think when
he's meeting like jaws exactly and yeah
because you know you have to match shots
especially all that but it has its own
set of you know trying to keep the
horizon level on a boat you don't want
to give the audience seasickness and but
you know I would add to that like don't
do a movie where people want to kill you
because when we did the cove it was you
know was exciting but dangerous work yes
yeah look that movie changed a lot of
people's minds and opened up a lot of
people's eyes to the horrors of the way
dolphins are slaughtered and and what
you know we were just talking about this
before the podcast I think they are as
intelligent as human beings I just think
the difference is they can't change
their environment they don't affect
their environment the way we do they
don't build houses they don't have cars
they don't send emails so we don't
appreciate what they are but when we
look at the complexity of their brains
the fact that their cerebral cortex is
40% larger
human beings they have this incredibly
complex language that we don't even
really totally understand we can Peck
out to understand any of it yeah I mean
we could pass out patterns mean the
scientists have I mean you know I'm sure
you're aware John lilies work sure John
Lily mean for years and and didn't like
really weird unconventional ways he
tried to take acid and communicate with
dolphins and it's one of the reasons why
he keep he created the sensory
deprivation tank we actually have one of
those over here and Lily
for they were forever trying to figure
out some way to figure out some method
of communication where they were trying
to get the Dolphins to talk like people
and we would try to make their noises
and to no avail yeah I mean they're
obviously extremely complex people you
know of animals and if you you know
judging by our value like people say all
these you know they didn't invent you
know the car and write computers but you
know the intelligence can be seen as
your ability to you know to live exist
in your environment yes and by that
standard you know I mean put us in the
water right and you know have a go at it
yeah how we do they don't eat anything
in that world they travel through
three-dimensional space I mean it's it's
incredible what they can do yeah and you
know they're like well I but you know
it's not just dolphins - it's I mean
they look at you know butterflies
monarch butterflies they they it takes
three generations for them to go - to
migrate from Canada down to a six
hectares in northern Mexico and they do
that somehow they find it you know every
every year and I could you know I
couldn't find the studio without an
iPhone right you know so I mean what's
what's goin we don't even have a clue on
how most the world works
and you know were you know the second
film I worked on a racing extinction you
know that's about we're going through a
mass extinction right now we're
exterminating this stuff these animals
before we have a chance to even know how
they operate how about the the ecosystem
how it even works right the friend of
mine said it's like you know we're
burning down the Library of Congress
before we have a chance to know what the
books are you know yeah well that's what
they did with the Library of Alexandria
that's why we don't really totally
understand how they built the pyramids
but what disturbs me is this egocentric
approach that we have towards the
towards marine life in particular
because of the most intelligent versions
of life that we know other than
ourselves that we for some reason
universally have accepted up until
really recently because of your film and
because of blackfish and you know more
awareness and sea Shepherd and all these
different organizations that trying to
let people know like you got to pay
attention to what this is because I
think history I think when all said and
done we're gonna look at this as some
insane
slaughter of like what's basically like
water people they're like some form of
super intelligent life that some
cultures have just decided are just
competitors in in the fishing market
yeah well if you can't agree with you
more I mean I think it's and I think
that was the shock of the cove that you
see our counterparts in the ocean and
being treated like that and I think you
know when you look at the way we made
that film it was you know we pretty much
told the story what's going on in the
oceans by looking at that Cove and
William Blake said to see the world in a
grain of sand but we could look at you
know in that film we talked about
overfishing and you know listen to
reason reason that they shouldn't be
eaten besides that they're sentient
intelligent is this also that they're
toxic you know you know their meat is
now their flesh is now them some of the
most toxic you know waste in the world
when you bury him
you know there's I think six six
thousand times more PCBs than you know
was in the background in the ocean there
was you know all all the the flesh
that's been tested in in Japan in the
last 20 years has between five and five
thousand times more mercury than allowed
by Japanese law if it was a fish but
it's a mammal of course so Zane you know
just hearing that is insane interesting
story I was when we were making that
film there was a point we went down to
the IWC the International Whaling
Commission meeting down in an in Chile
and we were trying to get a an interview
with some of the top people there from
that run the organization because you
know whales dolphins are
and we had the footage at that point and
we're just hoping to get an interview
with somebody that worked for the
International Whaling Commission and
thus I think was going from Houston to
Santa Santiago the plane was full I
couldn't even sit next to the you know
my partners on the my buddies and the on
the film crew there's one empty seat
next to me and you know they're waiting
for somebody else to come from another
flight and right before the plane door
closes in come secure knock oh my he's
the head of overseas fishing for Japan
that the head bull glue Celine Looney
and he sits down right next to me I'm
looking at my buddies you know on the
plane thinking oh my god if there is a
God you know he has a good sense of
humor so he says sit down next to me I
didn't want you know him to like find
out who I was and then move so I waited
til dinner was served like an hour or
two later and I said do you have an idea
of who I am he said no he's I know who
you are and I want to show you a film
yeah so we had a we had a condensed
version of it you know probably about 12
or 15 minutes of it at that point I
showed it to him and I said how do you
reconcile killing these sentient
intelligent animals when you know that
they're there their flesh is poisoned
you know and you're there's
recommendations for pregnant women to
eat this you know this was flesh you
know on on the Genesee apon ease
Ministry of Health site and he said I'm
not in charge of food safety I'm in
charge of food security in other words
he's he doesn't have to worry about the
health consequences always he has to his
job is just provide enough meat on the
plate for the for Japanese people and it
gives you an insight of how he's
thinking you know he's in charge of I
think there's 145 million people in
Japan and an area about the size of our
California and he said seventy percent
of of the the land area and Japan is
only you know good enough for growing
crops on or living on or we have to live
you know turn to the sea for food and at
that point they were also caught
skimming stealing about two hundred
thousand tons of endangered bluefin tuna
this is over about a twenty year period
now the when you start talking about big
numbers like that I can't imagine
you know it's hard to imagine it but
imagine like how are they stealing this
tune
well they're they have quotas and
they're exceeding their quotas every
year which means that they're taking
away from other countries so it's not
just like the the everybody every
country has their allotment and once
you've reached it you're supposed to go
home but the Japanese kept on getting
more so that the Australians actually
caught them you know they figured out
over this twenty year period that they
went through the books and saw what they
reported and was actually sold at the
skeezy market found out they say it's
Kim two hundred thousand tonnes that's
five big train cars we like trains full
of you know endangered to know like that
cars but the whole trains like 110 car
trains five of them folds weird to just
reconcile the idea that tune is
endangered you know you think of tuna as
being something that you just get at the
store like tuna tune is a weird one
right because it's such a common food
it's in cans you you see it at the sushi
place you know what I'm saying like you
hear that tune is endangered most people
like its to an endangered like they're
hearing this cone is tuna endangered but
when you talk to people to work at the
fish market
they'll very clearly tell you that
there's a radical difference between the
amount of tuna that was available 30 40
years ago versus now
ten years ago I mean we're down to the
bluefin tunas particulars down to about
ninety it's down to four percent of
their historical levels that's
incredible
yeah and and there's no way to stop this
there's no I mean it seems like it's
everyone's waiting for someone else to
do something and during the meantime
everyone's just trying to make money a
lot of money yeah unfortunately it's
sort of what happens with endangered
species the the more rare becomes more
valuable it becomes and so there's very
little incentive to do the right thing
and you know but this is happening with
all the fish stocks I mean I probably
gave our buy run a little organization
called the oceanic Preservation Society
and I probably gave out more seafood
guides than anybody on the planet this
is a Monterey Steve seafood you know god
watch is like even like what what fish
are sustainable and I've seen them you
know go through the fish docks and so
less and less you know we started at the
big animals and we start you know slowly
go through all the fish docks until like
we're you know
like McDonald's used to do halibut
now it's Pollock which is a very small
you know white fish from Alaska and now
that's been you know how to to
extinction so we're going through these
fish stocks it's you know that's
shifting baseline where you're seeing
you know each successive generation
adapts to the diminishment of the the
previous one that's what's going on so I
just stopped you know handing out
seafood guys and now I'm trying to sort
of preempt it so I don't think you know
the big question is there's seven and a
half billion of us on this planet soon
to be ten is there enough wild animals
to defeat us all there isn't you know
you look at the biomass of mammals on
the planet you know between livestock
and humans we we occupied 96% of the
biomass of mammals on the planet four
percent of wild mammals and then you
know so we can't all be eating wild fish
you know we think about that you know
you never go out and say look let's get
some land food they say you know we we
commodified you know see how that is
interesting right you know say land food
that's a really good point you know they
did at the turn of the century I mean
during the late 1800s rather there was
market hunting and North America and a
lot of the soldiers were done with world
with the civil war rather they were
hunting and they hunted all the deer the
bear the antelope the Buffalo and they
got down to like incredibly low numbers
you know elk to this day I think are
only in 10% of their original range that
that they were at in the 1700s and that
was all from market hunting from people
just going out buying you know meat from
these market hunters that have shot
these things and they didn't really have
refrigeration back then so it wasn't
like they could freeze it and store it
and they got down to these incredibly
low levels until Teddy Roosevelt and a
lot of other people that were
conservation minded realize like what
was happening here and they put a stop
to it all and then started enacting
programs to reintroduce these animals to
the the areas where their extirpated and
now you see historic levels of
especially white-tailed deer there's
more whitetail deer in America now than
were when Columbus landed
so so but that's Ben's except but it's
also that's a weird one too because
white-tailed deer almost a farm animal
because there's so many of them that
exist in Iowa and Kansas and around
farmlands like they literally exist in
fields and a lot of them live off of GMO
crops that's very strange
so like I have a buddy mine my friend
Doug doctorin who has this huge piece of
land in Wisconsin and he's like the deer
in my area are essentially eating these
GMO corn they're eating Monsanto corn
like this is so weird like the yeah
they're wild but they're also kind of
farm animals you know because they in
they exist in record numbers because
they've got so much food to eat and no
predators yeah I mean the only predators
they have there I mean they they have
some wolves now very few in some some
parts of the Driftless area in Wisconsin
I think to have they have some bears too
and coyotes a lot of coyotes it will
kill a lot of the fawns I lived in
Boulder Colorado for a while and we had
a lot of bears and mountain lions come
through our yard because we were right
at the base of the foothills of the
Rockies and a neighbor I woke up one
morning the neighbors like looking at
his minivan there's a big dent on the
side and he's trying to figure out like
how to get a dent because it was parked
here all night and he found an antler in
the bushes I thought well what the hell
out it and then the question is how does
a deer run into it and then in the paper
the next day there was a picture of a
mountain lion
house down the block sitting on a hot
tub cover this is in the winter holding
a deer with one you know in his mouth
with one antler oh so the attack didn't
slammed it into oh Jesus Christ I lost a
dog in Boulder to mountain lion Wow
yeah I had a little dog who's part
American Eskimo and part Pomeranian a
mountain lion got it the mountain lion I
think got our cat yeah they get
everything up there man if it's not them
it's a fox you know there's a lot of
foxes up there to get things but god
it's beautiful
yeah boulders are just incredible
incredible place and you'll be driving
down the road and you see it's weird
like the deer in Boulder know that
they're safe so like we were we were
looking at this house
in Boulder and we opened up the door to
the backyard and there was this enormous
deer just standing there staring at us
and my wife thought it was fake I go no
that's a real deer she's like what and
then it just turns his head and starts
moving around because it wasn't even
remotely freaked out that there were
people stoned throw away from it they're
just so used to being around people it's
weird you know the neighborhood
remembered neighborhood VARs planning
rose bushes on the front of their
property and you know all proud and then
I remember it's driving home like later
on that day and there's a deer coming
this is snipping the tops of the Roses
salad bar yeah many people have turned
on deer because of the loss of their
gardens the roses especially they love
roses yeah it's um is there anybody that
has ever come up with any sort of a plan
to do what they did for wild animals in
North America because it but you can't
regulate it the way you can wild animals
because in wild animals if they have a
particular area you could make it so
people can't go in that area but the
ocean is so enormous like how is anybody
come up with some sort of a repopulation
plan sure sure there's a eel Wilson I'm
on the board of the advisory board of
his this group is called the you know
the half of the half-life project you
know who yell Wilson knows to know okay
eel Wilson is a Harvard professor it has
two pilasters for his work on in biology
he's a wrote the book on biodiversity
he's considered the father of modern
biodiversity is about getting the right
around 90 years old now but looking at
he would do things like go to an island
and pretty much exterminate everything
on it and then try to figure out well
you know at what rate did the animals
come back and what's what's sustainable
and he's figured out that to save 85% of
the we had the wild animals on the
planet you had to put aside half of it
for them you know that's hassle of the
plant have to plan it yeah so the ocean
you would have to literally make half
the ocean where people couldn't travel
in it on the travel and it does not
exploit it you know no fish yeah no
fishing and so Sylvia Earle is working
on hot spots you know these
they're called I think what she calls
it's like a like like Blue Zones where
you know you have a lot of biodiversity
you know try to keep those away from
fishing exploitation how do they do that
though like how I mean it's you would
have to get everybody on board right
yeah well the the high seas are you know
that's that's tough right yeah though
the Japanese we're fishing in a you know
in an international Marine Sanctuary for
decades you know so you have to you know
this really tough when you have
organizations that really don't have any
teeth to it it's that the the attitude
that he has that pragmatic attitude
about feeding a population you almost
can sympathize with him right mean a
hundred plus million people in this tiny
place the size of California and just
pulling mostly fish out of the ocean I
mean it's a it's a crazy place to be in
terms of his position yeah I'm you know
I don't envy it at all but you know what
do you do don't slaughter dolphins
that's what you do yeah well we're
endangered species or I mean I don't
know what's you know what's sustainable
anymore is it it possible to I mean I
know they've done this in in some places
outside of Hawaii where they've they've
bred animals fish rather like sushi fish
like hamachi and they've had these pens
set up and then a lot of times a storm
will come by like a huge storm and they
break these pens and then those fish get
wild then people start catching them
yeah well that's I mean like salmon like
well you know I went they were trying to
in Japan when we were doing the cove we
went to a university where they were
breeding the first bluefin tuna these
are from eggs you know so this is one
like like what they do it some places
where they they catch them then they put
him in these pens and they fatten him up
these were their make making bluefin
from scratch basically from eggs and
really hard to do really skittish and
when I went there they were shoveling
this this back when I ate fish
they were shoveling these mackerels like
what I would feed my family with like a
family of four they were shoveling it to
the tuna and I said hold on a minute
like how many how many how much you know
mackerel does it take to make a pound of
tuna I said oh about seven four up until
about a hundred fifty pounds and after
that it takes 14 pounds so seven pounds
of wild fish to make one pound of
farm-raised fish I mean this is like
going to the bank and you know you know
because you want to Chris five dollar
bill and say let me give me this you
know here's a couple couple 20s Wow but
that's good you know if you look at you
know what are they feeding you know a
lot of these fish they're feeding him
you know it's the farm animals
yes wild fish and I was just reading
this morning of Los Angeles magazine
that and the cover it says you know fish
fish are fucked and it has in it talks
about like the fish that are raised and
I don't know the data behind it that
they're they have eight times more
pollutants in it than wild fish I know
if it's what they're feeding or maybe
because they were sitting in a they're
stationary I think that's a big part of
the problem no yeah no apparently they
don't taste as well when we were in
Hawaii recently we went scuba diving and
you know snorkeling so you jump off the
boat yeah swimming around and you know
what's really fuckin weird about that is
how few fish there are like when you're
under there you're like you expect
you're gonna dunk your head underwater
with those goggles on you're gonna see
all this wildlife all these fish
swimming around the snails not much yeah
not see much yeah there was a about ten
years ago I was down the Caribbean a
friend was getting married and I took
his daughter out you know I didn't know
it at the time but is her first time
snorkeling and we were in an area tide
been to about 20 years before and there
was nothing there was nothing there it
was just like a desert yeah and then I
heard her screaming through a snorkel I
thought what what's what's wrong and she
was screaming because she saw a single
orange tang that was the only life-form
we saw there where I used to see clouds
of schools of these orange and blue tang
now there was nothing
my god she thinks that that's beautiful
and it is it's just you know the single
fish but you know again a shifting
baseline the generation before when I
was there is probably look like the Land
Before Time right these places I went to
with with Clark
you know Raja on pot where you see you
know if you go to the Caribbean you
might see thirty fish on a different
species of fish in a dive and Raja Ampat
you see 300 and it was just miraculous
and when you're taking pictures you
actually see more detail with the
picture than you can with your own
you're I can't comprehend it also it's
only when you get back and you see these
reefs that we've you know we lit like
jewel boxes you see how much life that
there is there but there was just
unbelievable stunning amounts of
wildlife but that's going on all over
the world in the Great Barrier Reef you
know we lost over half the Great Barrier
Reef in the last two years it was never
that good anyway you know 15 years ago I
you know after being to these some of
the best preserved places in the world
that had been to a Clark we looked at
the Gary book Great Barrier Reef and
we'd be like oh my god this is not that
great now they've already then they've
lost half again so I mean if you're just
putting your head in the water for the
first time and you come from you know
Iowa Wisconsin or Boulder that looks
pretty good but if you knew what came
before that you're seeing this this you
know salt against you know nature going
on what is taking out the Great Barrier
Reef it's we're heating the planet we're
heating the water it's a it's it's
bleaching
so there's a couple things there's
multiple insults you have runoff from
fertilizer and pesticides from an
agriculture you have the heating of the
water these these events wouldn't when I
say it it's dying it's dying it's not
like oh it's gonna come back ones once
the coral is dead that's it it's it's
not going to come back this is a
sunscreen play a part in that as well
and probably not there it's pretty it's
fairly remote like over in Hawaii it
would or there was a Caribbean but it's
pretty remote you have to get out
several miles to at the Great Barrier
Reef and it's if the further north you
go the more isolated as we went the
entire length of the Great Barrier Reef
and it didn't look it got slightly
better as you got north but there's only
a couple boats there it's not like you
have
you know thousands and hundreds of
thousands of tourists out and about on
the beach you know the other thing is
acidification the burning of fossil
fuels is a Fitness acidifying the oceans
is now about 30 percent more acidic than
it was you know 50 years ago and when do
you make you know there's more carbonic
acid in the water it makes it harder for
the the corals to survive and it's
basically have these multiple insults
going on at the same time it's probably
not just one thing but there was a
massive bleaching about two years in a
row no Great Barrier Reef and so it's
it's disappearing in our lifetime that's
you know but if you look at we have a we
have a the last coral berry reef in
America is down in Florida and they have
like semi treated sewage coming out of
these off Falls that Lake if you swim
through these you know I've been out
there you know on these beaches you
could literally talk to somebody on the
beach or scream to them on the beach and
they have the this green water coming
out of sewer pipes 200 meters away 300
meters away and so they're dumping you
know semi treated sewage on the last
reef in America this is going on all
around the world and you know what we do
I don't know but we this is the last
generation that we have that can
actually do something about it because
we're seeing it disappear in our watch
and that's what I'm trying to do is try
to not just create the awareness that
something's going on that we have to do
something but try to create action now
when you say semi treated sewage what do
you mean by that well that's that's what
they reported so it's it it smells like
sewage it smells like crap but if you if
you go to the website it says it's just
semi treated I don't know they they're
not you know putting it through the
aerators they're not going through the
whole system but it smells like shit to
me you know you come out of the water
and it's like you know we all stink you
so now I said you know this is this is
at the but by the way this is a
Hollywood Fort Lauderdale border this is
not like legal I mean this is not a
third-world country like how is the
United States allowing them to pump semi
treated sewage it's a very good question
you know there's there's so many things
to work on I know get the the activists
down there working on the sirs trying to
get people to see it to know that the
is going on and if you know I think they
close the beaches down when you know
when the wind shifts and Hill starts to
push it on shore but if you saw if you
were on the beach and you saw what was
going on there you wouldn't be sending
your kids Sarah you wouldn't be going to
Florida if you knew what was going on on
that beach we can make arguments about
whether or not you should go to Florida
all day long and I'm with you a hundred
percent but I just can't imagine that
they would allow this and that I mean
how much more would it cost to treat it
versus semi treated how much more would
it cost
I don't know it's not let's do what
they're doing so good question saying
and then they that they close the beach
when the when the water shifts and the
wind shifts and heads towards the shore
and people get sick and they probably
don't even house Christ yeah I mean you
know we'd be out that when we were out
one out fall day that's what the calming
out fall is basically a sewer pipe you
know nothing's happening and all of a
sudden a destroyer to hear this Rumble
and then you see oh just this green Oh
God and it's in it we're not talking
like a little drain pipe to like
literally you could swim through it not
stand in it that it's big like four feet
five feet tall now why I mean why are
they allowing I mean does anybody have
an argument for why that's money money
matters cause because less it might cost
money to treat sewage Jesus Christ
though that's insane well there's a lot
of things like that but it seems like
someone someone should be held
accountable for that like whatever it
caught cost-benefit that they've decided
is worth polluting the ocean by pumping
sewage into it well you know that's a
good question when we did - now that I
recall this is like five years ago we
tried to get an interview with the key
people down there but try to like if you
if you're gonna talk to somebody about
this nobody wants to go on record to
talk about it because it's it's really
bad for tourism it's you know and it's
not good for the political your video of
it can we show video well this is yeah I
need to see it race it or it's and
racing extinction second film I did this
oh look at that
there we go oh that's so disgusting four
months ago maybe Wow Wow it is just a
gigantic
pipe pumping green shit into the ocean
was it green by the way quite sure it'll
be the color under the water - you said
there's a green when you saw it as well
right yeah yeah yeah well treated as
it's treated much better that way
well everything everything everything in
the spectrum there's a little bit of
blue or green look at all the food
coloring look at that that's fuck what
is that fish yeah fish sandwich they can
they can eat eat crowd Christ yeah and
build theirs then the fishermen fish on
a - oh Jesus Christ to catch fish that
are eating shit look at that that is
insane
well looking at this pipe and it looks
like like a cloud of poison is is being
jettisoned out of this pipe and into the
ocean then the important part is if you
came up you would see people on the
beach Oh God I mean and we're not
talking about like you know miles out at
sea we're talking about how we in
America I mean I know Florida's barely
America but how in America is that
possible yeah it's a really good
question we tried that you know we try
to explore some of these issues but
trying to get somebody to talk on the
record about this is really difficult is
there any other part of the country that
has something like that not that I know
fuck in Florida Jesus Christ
of course it's Florida I mean is there a
place that it's so worthy of all the
stereotypes like Florida is it seems
like every time you think you've had
enough look at all these fish just
swimming in the shit that surface looks
like it's boiling when all over come Oh
God shit boiled shit boil in Florida and
look at the ground it's all just covered
with algae well that's kind of a point
like what I'm saying is like you know we
always think somebody else should be
doing something about this yeah you know
that's why we do films is not just to
create the awareness and you know to try
to get something done about it when we
do we know when we did the cove they
were killing about 23,000 dolphins and
porpoises every year for human
consumption and I think the last time I
think
17 was the last reports of how many to
kill death he was 69 intent the sole
vote total so like a 93 percent drop
since we did that film because every
time that Ric O'Barry he's the guy that
captured and trained the five female
dolphins that collectively played the
part of flipper every time that we
talked in the Japanese press we try to
use the word mercury because that's
their Achilles heel now we can say you
know both if you talk to yeah if you
talk to the Japanese the people from the
IDC of course they're out of that now if
they've quit the IWC they'd say well
what about cows pigs and chickens you
know they're pretty essentially
intelligent too and we say well that's
the mercury now how many people are
eating dolphin meat less you know I
think less because of the film when we
were there they were feeding it to
school kids and the school children it's
the young mind like infants or you know
prenatal that has the most dilatory
effects of mercury you know because your
neurons are just developing and they had
hatched a scheme to to have for school
lunch programs all over America and in
Japan unlike an America you have to eat
everything on your plate so it's almost
like you were force-fed to poison
because of the film that stopped so I
mean films could be really powerful you
know - yeah that's amazing the film is
so disturbing man well you know that it
is and you know it's a when Mark Monroe
the writer he came up with the name The
Cove I said it sounds like a horror film
he goes well I mean look if we're right
and these are water people I mean
essentially as intelligent if not more
what I mean
you were saying that the complexity of
their brains is more you know the more
density for neurons like the the folds
of the brains if you look at if you did
a slice of a brain it looks like a fjord
right and there's there's more
convolutions with a with a dolphin
there's more surface area for neurons
and of course those neurons you know
more neurons you have the more
connections you're making and what their
act and they have to actually have a
god there's a spindle neurons that they
have for that are for developing complex
emotions you know if you look at orcas
you know they're they're really tight
net communities of a male Orca won't you
know will spend most of us life not more
than a body length away from its mother
the entire time until it goes to do what
it does
these animals are really social and
they're communicating at levels that
like you said what we don't even know
what they're saying yeah with like the
average person can hear from you know 50
Hertz to 20,000 kilohertz and they can
hear I think they can communicate
communicate up to 200,000 so there's a
whole band worth like an order of
magnitude more bandwidth that they're
actually communicating with and we hear
like a little squeak up but if you slow
it down and break it down there's
actually you know there's there's
there's more patterns in there then we
can sense that what's interesting about
about whales blue whales blue whales are
really solitary creatures they're you
know they're not gregarious like
dolphins they don't usually hang out in
big you know groups but down in the
Southern Ocean
it was confounding people like how do
they find the krill bloom that happens
in a different area you know hundreds of
thousands of miles apart
how did they you know they all find it
and one of the researchers Roger Payne
came up with this idea and it was
through the work with the Navy that
there's a something called the deep
ocean channel it's basically between the
surface of the water and the thermal
layer that's it fluctuates depending on
where you're at in the column let's say
500 feet they they basically use their
voice which is the one of the loudest
voices in the in the animal kingdom is
so loud but it's infrasound you can't
hear it and they'll use it it almost
gets propagated like a like the Internet
but Ruth that layered that the so it's
bouncing up and imagine that it's
bouncing up to the surface and down to
this this cold layer and it can go for
literally thousands of miles and that is
so they it's called reciprocal altruism
as the theory is that they won when one
finds it they start singing and that
notifies the rest of the group that this
is where the krill bloom is and then
they can all survive
there's a friend of mine Chris Clark dr.
Chris Clark from over in Cornell
University he was he was there's a
there's a string of pearl hydrophones
that the Navy's is called SOSUS in a
mid-atlantic ridge and it was a you know
it was designed to listen for Russian
submarines back in the Cold War but they
opened it up to some researchers and
Chris is one of the first ones to you
know if you're a researcher listening to
whales you you go out in your little
boat and you drop a hydrophone in and
you can usually think that's amazing
looking at hear sounds everywhere
there's you know everything is basically
singing down there from crackling shrimp
up to blue whales and you know so you
have this impression that man I just you
know dropped in on this this
conversation I don't know what's being
said but like that's it feels pretty
special now he goes to SOSUS and they
have like a back then it was like a like
an underground bunker full of like
people with three screens back before
anybody had three screens and
everybody's listening to you know for
the for submarines and he can he sees
that the out of board is lit up in the
whole world he's seen wherever the the
blue whales are singing or the you know
that all these whales is this little it
up like a Christmas tree and they're
trying to what the Navy was trying to do
is to filter through the voices of what
they called the biologicals to to
pinpoint the submarines but he was like
oh my god this is like the holy grail
for listening to whales because they
have the they can tell what's going on
on a ocean ecosystem level when he could
just said you know you imagine one guy
in a boat out there trying to listen no
again all of a sudden has all this
incredible data and he could track
animals and these animals like blue
whales that they'll ping and they can
basically send out a wave and they can
see thousands of miles away you know you
know with with their you know with their
other extra senses Wow Jesus that's
incredible and we just met just imagine
that ability to to pick up all those
extra patterns that we don't even hear
so we don't even understand exactly what
kind of data they're getting from each
other we don't know what it means either
so we we
know there's something right yeah
there's a friend of mine I don't know if
he would only talk to his name's Britt
cell-cell Vitali he's working with this
another friend of his ASA to try to use
AI to figure out what animals are saying
I know he's talked about it before so I
think it's a with the press so I think
it's okay if I mention it but I've been
sending it to people like Roger Payne
and Chris Clark these other researchers
I know because they're these huge
databases and he's we're trying to use
AI to see if they can figure out you
know using computers what these animals
are saying and I think that's the holy
grail for getting us get for letting us
care about these animals if we can we
know what they're saying I think that
changes the game yes means what Roger
Payne you know when it's just in the
code but when you know he's the guy that
well he and his wife found out that
these animals are determined that these
at the end was like humpback whales are
singing you know these strange beautiful
sounds I don't know do you want to Jimmy
pull up like songs of the humpback whale
yeah we'll find something to play that
these animals were actually singing you
know it was actually his wife Katie pain
that figured it out and he wrote up the
paper with it with another guy but like
joyously singing yeah like it like you
know she would have 100 humpback well we
have an issue with playing I can't but
yeah that sex had been sold so it's a
copy written yeah yeah a lot of times we
do that we'll get pulled off of youtube
oh okay
yeah because somebody owns that which is
hilarious right they own the sound of
nature which is like what you can
probably if you know if you go on to the
website of the Cornell ornithology lab I
think I think they're probably some
stuff that you could play with it's not
copyrighted excuse me I think so now
look it's tough it's gonna be real tough
though because somebody may own it that
may not know that somebody else owns it
an agent for the world protecting it and
trying to get an agent for well some CAA
hey we want to get paid you fucks
are you aware what's going on with the
resident Orca pod
outside of Seattle yeah yeah which it's
a this very strange situation where the
salmon have dwindled radically and this
resident pod only eats salmon they only
what is it Chinook
so they only eat chinook salmon and so
these the ones that migrate the
migratory orcas are fine because the
marine mammals the mostly seals and
these poor resident ones do not want to
eat anything other than salmon and so
they're literally starving to death and
they're trying to figure out ways to
feed them ya know I was working on that
story for the last year or so on a
different aspect of it that was a
co-directing on the film I was doing the
Russia portion there was the Russians
had illegally caught a hundred and one
cetaceans about in 87 roughly belugas
and about 11 orcas illegally for the
Chinese market I was covering that part
of the Chinese market of marine shows
yeah yeah there's no well you know the
cove and black fish in particular have
been really effective about shutting
down you know in a massive way that
amount of people going to thank God
Joe's but in China they haven't got the
message
so there I think there was 25 new
dolphin parks opening up in China alone
this year you know so it's you know it's
like whack-a-mole and the Russians were
providing but know that and that story
when I was in Russia this is like one of
those amazing situations Putin on a
State of the Union addressed announced
that they were going to release the
whales back you know from the whale jail
that were caught over him in eastern
Russia so we ran over to Vladivostok and
covered that portion of the story but to
answer your question there's another
co-director that was working on the
northwest and the Lummi indians were
going out to feed you know they from
their stock of of a farm raised salmon
they were feeding the animals but that's
you can't that's not sustainable cuz
their event there is so they move around
yeah you can't find them sometimes that
the solution seems to be to get rid of a
lot of the dams yeah this it's a kind of
an unpopular position with some people
but they're not if
anymore they're holding up the you know
the the whole ecosystems are being
together because that well you know the
one of them that they initially want
when they set it up they didn't even
realize what they were doing this wasn't
like the 1930s or something like that
were they you know they had hundreds of
thousands of salmon just coming to this
wall and not understanding what the
fuck's going on and dying there there's
a friend of mine I'm a co-director in
film about plastics with Josh Murphy did
a film called artificial and it's about
just this you know the the craziness of
raising salmon for fishermen to fish you
know because and it gets really
expensive when you start looking at like
what that what you know what you think
is a wild salmon you know what it
actually cost to raise it sometimes it's
like thousands of dollars per fish you
know because there's so few of them
actually come through and get back but
what is this Jamie this is pattern radio
so this is a I did reset the website but
it says that you can explore yourself to
find humpback whale songs and make your
own discoveries
I use AI to explore thousands of hours
of humpback whale songs and make your
own discoveries so I'll play some of it
yeah there's a lot to dig through here
but it's a really cool looking site
anybody wants go check it out
[Music]
[Applause]
what's that heavy-duty pattern over to
the left Jenny
no to the left sorry yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
whoa really what about those long bars
right next to it yeah no they were over
through the right no no the long ones
the long ones
like just to the right of that image
yeah if you if that was coming out of
space you'd be like what yeah we'd be
like we have to go immediately I've
often said that about Bigfoot that we
everyone carry shut off people are so
interested in Finding Bigfoot but if you
found Bigfoot what would it be it would
be basically a big chimpanzee or
something right another big primate we
already know about primates are amazing
we know about no but if you found if an
orca wasn't real and someone said hey
there's this thing it's as smartest
people maybe smarter it lives in the
ocean but it breathes air and it swims
around these incredible pods and they're
they're really tight communities and
communicate with each other with this
language that we have had our best
linguists try to decipher we have no
idea what the fuck they're saying you
know you'd be like what kind of animal
is that it would be a crazy mythical
creature
you know like The Creature from the
Black Lagoon or the you know Loch Ness
monster or something it would be like
some incredible thing if you ever found
one people would be freaking out we get
so used to things being real and I think
we're just used to them and
unfortunately because of things like you
know Free Willy and you know and it
going to see SeaWorld shows where the
doing flips are fish and everybody's
clapping people have got it in their
head that this is just the thing it's a
normal thing but what they are is like
one of the most fantastic creatures that
the world has ever known and all of the
billions of years of life on this planet
there's two things that are mind blowers
in terms of like their intelligence one
of them is us the other one is them all
the marine mammals whether it's whales
dolphin I mean whales are amazing
because of their size but whales
dolphins and and and and orcas and
obviously orcas are cousins of whales
but they're those things are there's
some of the most spectacular creatures
that the the the the biodiversity of the
earth has ever created I I agree I mean
you know when you're watching a dolphin
show you're what watching a spectacle of
dominance
you're watching slaves yeah I mean
listen um you know this is a nice room
you know we have plenty of water and
that you know if we needed food and we
had to do backflips for it after a
couple weeks they've do you and I would
be doing here exactly exactly and that's
what it does yeah exactly
we oh we you know on this this film I
was working on we uncovered some some
information between at Sea World and
this is the the the trainer's talking to
management about you know an animal
that's not performing well and then they
get the vets involved and the vets say
have you tried caloric deprivation you
know so there's actually emails in
Nevada they'll never tell you that
they're starving an animal to get it to
do tricks but there's young enthusiasts
now know that the dr. imagine that if
you went to you know a university and
like his grades are down what should we
do starve them you imagine if that was
your kid you dad they don't we don't
want to give me any food because I'm
doing well poorly in history like what
yeah or you know to perform better with
the sports I guess would be a better now
yeah Jesus Christ I mean that's
essentially what they do with the the
Cuban Olympic wrestling program
Yoel Romero who was one of the top UFC
fighters came out of the Cuban wrestling
program and he said that the elite
athletes get to eat three times a day
but the people that are under them get D
twice a day yeah and they set up this
insane competition so that they're
they're hunted so that the elite
athletes are hunted by the guys coming
up they want to make sure that you know
they only develop the best of the best
you know and his is this crazy Cuban
accent with his broken English she's
like hit darn you ain't oh I'm a gene
that's how he talks
you know and he's just a he's an
unbelievable freak athlete and
of why he's so spectacular is because
they came up through this ruthless
program Wow
yeah it's horrible but the results are
pretty spectacular it's you know it's
just to me I mean I have a very close
relationship with a guy named Phil
dimers who has been involved in a
decades-long lawsuit with Marineland in
Canada he was a walrus trainer and you
know that story yes and he they the
walrus bond with humans when they're
babies and he bonded with this walrus
named smooshy and I'm today I believe
she's the only one that's alive
Marineland
has a horrible record of animal rights I
mean it's it's a he mean the way Phil
puts it he goes it makes SeaWorld look
like paradise for dolphins and orcas and
he was an orca trainer there too and a
dolphin trainer and you know he worked
with these these people that over there
and just I mean horrific stories of what
it's like and to see these animals just
living in hell just tortured and then
they have no chance to ever find their
family again they were they were pulled
from their mother when they're a baby
now here there are you know 15 years old
stuck in a swimming pool developing
ulcers they're their dorsal fin the
collapsing collapses and atrophies I
mean it it's it's so crazy that it's
still legal like that after blackfish
SeaWorld didn't just shut get shut down
by the government and that people didn't
just boycott them in mass you know their
stock was a TED talk I have I showed the
stock price of what one thing I was at
at Sundance for the premiere of a
blackfish and I went down and talked to
the you know the people that made the
film afterwards and I said we're gonna
be the best thing that ever happened to
you because at that point I think we had
like six hundred fifty thousand
followers and then we helped to organize
like you know getting musicians to you
know to stop performing there and and we
sent a copy of blackfish in the cove to
all the ten major everybody has sat at
the board of directors that it
backed seaworld you know so we you know
everybody that sat on the board got a
copy of that that that film and then
when their there's I can't remember
because it was their earnings came out
that that quarter it just their stock
value just fell down from 32 to like 16
they lost like a you know a billion
dollars in value almost overnight and
you know but now it's back up it's back
up and like the 20s I think really yeah
so you know they're doing other things
too they're they're trying to you know
to you know do rides and you know do
what the other theme parks are doing and
try to get away from that business but
it's still happening it should be
illegal I mean it's it's it's really
simple it should be illegal it's once
you look at the data what we understand
about their intelligence what we
understand about the way they've
captured these things and taking them
from their families and with the
understand a close-knit or just the
nature of these orca pods the fact that
it's not illegal it's just it's stunning
yeah well if they've you know a lot of
other you know they've read a lot of
there's now in captivity which is even
more fucker yeah and I mean they're not
even from the you know the if you know
the how they learn and now they're
suddenly thrown into these disparate
groups but you know you have some that
are wild some come from different you
know imagine these these populations of
the transients and the residents they
don't speak the same language now and
then you pulled the mothers away so
there's really no what do they do when
they don't speak the same language do
they try to communicate they just run
into it they they beat up each other
there's you know all sorts of you know
evidence that we have had people go in
there and and because there's a lawsuit
going on right now with and so we've
we've gone in and photographed for the
people with a lawsuit and you look in
their their raped you know they the
dolphins chew on the iron bars on the
side or the sides the pool there's a lot
of their teeth are just sawed it off
because they get infected it's yeah
let's go on to something else
what can you go onto I mean it's one of
them I really think it's I mean it it's
like a human rights issue but it's a
human rights issue for water people you
know and we just if we could really like
you said we could decipher what they
were saying and then break it down to a
very clear language oh yeah that would
that would certainly help with
everything yeah if we knew what was
being said because you know we did this
film called racing extinction and with
the working title was called the singing
planet because just about everything is
singing we just haven't been listening
everything from a you know from a mouse
up to a blue whale has a song I mean
technically it's a song and but we don't
see it as that we're looking at it only
through our own eyes and you know that
was part of the objective of that film
was to try to get people to understand
like hey there's all these other
life-forms out there they're
disappearing before we have a chance to
even know what they're up to and were
the last generation that can fix it so
you know we're going through a mass
extinction right now the six you know
the the answer was seen and you know
when I started you know I did four
stories for National Geographic on on
dinosaurs on the Mesozoic the midlife of
the plan a lot of friends of mine were
for paleontologists and Michael Novacek
the the head Provost of the American
Museum of Natural History I was in the
Gobi Desert with them and you know you
go around to these beautiful landscapes
where you see dinosaurs laid out you
know basically from the tip of the nose
to the tip of the tail like you don't
see anywhere else in the world like they
almost got exterminated by something in
one go and he had told me that well
we're going through a mass extinction
right now and I was like what he said oh
yeah this is you know mankind is
responsible for the the sixth mass
extinction that's the first time I heard
about it about 15 years ago and you know
I said well you know what are the issues
what he said well the drivers are
habitat destruction for agriculture
pollution invasive species and base of
species and overconsumption but but the
biggest one by far is habitat
destruction the raising of of crops for
animals that we in turn eat
so you know if you look at what's going
on in Africa you know poaching is a big
huge problem but a bigger problem is
there you know a lot of that land now is
being and what's going on the Amazon as
well it's being torn up for getting feed
for for cattle for did they come did
they find out what was causing those
fires in the Amazon like what were those
were they set
do they know yeah those are those are
all illegal fires for illegal crops for
you know soybean corn to feed cattle so
they burned down the jungle so that they
could wipe everything out this has been
proven oh yeah oh yeah they do it the
same thing in Indonesia but for palm oil
and the thing about Brazil is bolson are
Oh apparently has approved this kind of
behavior right is that what's going on
down now yeah to prop up business right
there was an image in the New York Times
of South Paulo and people walking
through during the day and the sky was
like like it was dark out just from this
from the clouds of smoke from the
burning of the Amazon from the millions
of acres yeah and these are one of the
most biodiverse hotspots on the planet
and we're burning him down for well not
only that not just biodiverse but so
unknown they're mean this is where a
great majority of some of the greatest
pharmaceutical drugs ever invented their
origins have come from the rainforests
people have found various compounds and
things inside the rainforest that have
been used for a variety of different
methods there's all sorts of bugs in
there that we don't understand and look
at that there's the image how insane is
that
I mean it's if you've never been to Sao
Paulo southpaw was a huge city I mean it
was like New York City it's it's massive
and the sky was literally black with
smoke
that's a daytime yep Wow
yeah insane well have you ever
experienced wildfires out here in
California oh yeah yeah yeah home boy I
mean gets pretty crazy last four or five
well what was the last month weeks you
live over here in Sausalito okay
yeah the north of the bridge okay well
then you guys the Northern Californian
won that one what was that uh was the
area that got hit I'll ask you hate fire
just recently yeah that was enormous yes
and then there was the one heard Eisler
the paradise fire that was the one that
was thinking was largest I think in
California history I mean these goddamn
fires when they happen it's it's a very
stunning and sobering reminder of the
the forces of nature and when you know
you're in this situation like we're in
right now or you have all this dry
ground and all these dry leaves and one
thing catches and then the wind brings
it down so it's terrifying but my point
was that I've been very very close to
some of these fires you know we've been
evacuated a few times and when it's
hitting in the skies like just gray with
smoke and the hills are on fire it's a
very strange strange feeling
yeah like climate change is real and
it's happening now and it's close it's
about as real as it can ever get I mean
if the people are in denial of it at
this point I mean how much longer can
you hold this opinion and what's what is
keeping you was keeping you on this it's
a hoax trial track you know I travel all
over the world we're the only country
that doesn't get it you know we might
have the illusion that it's half the
world that doesn't get it but worth mean
if the over in Europe and Asia they all
understand it it's not not a mystery
over there it's only here and I think
you know it's self interest read you
know I think people are you know there's
also a right-wing ideology there's
there's something that happens you know
there's certain opinions that people
adopt they adopt this conglomeration of
opinions if you are in the right or if
you're in the left and one of them in
the right is to deny the impact of
certain environmental factors and
climate change and things along those
lines and it's a it's just it's like to
join this group you have to subscribe to
a certain platform or a certain system
of ideas and that's one of them one of
them is that climate change is no big
deal
just a hoax or people are making out I
mean I mean I see it on Twitter all the
time where will someone to point
something out how's that climate change
working out for you but just because
like it's really cold in some place one
day like you know you don't you I don't
think you understand what this is like
that's actually part of it like have it
being extraordinarily cold one of the
whole things in chaos like all the
systems are out of whack
ya know whole ecosystems I mean like
went out the beach this morning and I
looked the way it did fifty thousand
years ago out there but you go into the
water it's a whole different story
yeah well a couple degrees warmer fucks
everything up yeah that's really hard
for us to understand because some days
it's 76 and the other days it's 52 and
the next day it's 80 it seems normal for
us there's variability but you don't
look at the overall mean if you look at
the overall mean you see that rise in
just a couple degrees of temperature to
change everything so I mean this is what
keeps me up at night it's like you know
if you know this is going on what do you
do about it so that you know you can
look at yourself when you're on your
deathbed and say I did everything I
could to make a difference well the fish
one's a huge one right and the ocean the
pollution of the ocean is a huge one
because it seems like it's nobody's
right it seems like it's everybody's but
it's nobody's whereas like the land if
someone is doing something on the leg
could you imagine that Florida if they
were just pumping that chin two West
Palm Beach if there's just a big tube
that goes into the sky and just sprays
all over West Palm Beach people be like
what the fuck is this and then they
would have they would have to act that
it's a you can't do that but because
it's getting pumped into the ocean it
seems like it's okay it's not ours it's
just the ocean well it's unfortunate
because I gotta go to work man all the
time for this
I've gotten behind on my car payments
I'm doing overtime tonight you know most
people are concerned with so many
different things that they don't have
time to think about the massive
overfishing and pollution of the ocean
well you know that's that's the trick
you know like like as a filmmaker how do
you make a story like that so that
people actually want to see it so I
don't feel like it's medicine they don't
feel like okay
gotta go watch right medicine that's a
good way of putting it yeah and you know
that The Cove for instance I mean that
was a films like a thriller it doesn't
feel like a right electron you know what
we're doing to dolphins is sort of a
setup like a mystery the first line of
the film was me saying I just want to
say we try to do the story legally I
still can't go back to Japan but you
know what happens if you go back um I
won't come back out no arrests I'm told
that there's a arrest warrants out for
me a conspiracy what conspiracy to
disrupt Commerce trespassing filming
please disrupt Commerce all that dolphin
commerce fucked you holy shit
conspiracy to destruct commerce how did
how you define disrupting Commerce
however they want I guess did you have
parameters that you were supposed to
operate under when you were over there
and you went outside of them yeah they
they gave us a map it's in the film they
gave us a map and it told us this is
where we're not supposed to go and you
know as my friend Charles Hambleton said
that became our template of where we
needed to go of course yeah have you
seen some of the sea Shepherd work where
they've caught these Japanese scientific
research boats that are really just
killing whales oh yeah you know they're
out of the southern ocean now this is
last year they announced that they were
gonna get out of there now they're only
killing whales around their own
territorial waters so in a way it's a
big victory
you know Paul's a good friend Paul
Watson he just wrote me right just took
a couple hours before I came here
yeah he wanted a like a big projector if
we did you doesn't you ever saw racing
extinction no we did you know to alert
the world that we needed a you know to
get on this week we lit up the Empire
State Building with endangered species
and it was like a huge event we had like
I think 939 million media views in four
days top trending story on Facebook and
Twitter for like four days worldwide
just to get you know would you do
something really strange like that how'd
you do that with a projector with 50
projectors 50 like IMAX size projectors
all mounted on the building that was on
like 31st Street and this is all
sanction we had as we spent four years
getting permission to do
and we finally did it and you know I
remember this right here Jamie's got a
video of it oh you got to slow that down
though oh oh on YouTube they speed it up
how long did this last for oh we did it
for three hours but there's like two 10
minute shows 15 minutes shows was there
a crowd of people that won't my god it
was it was like it was like it was like
the Easter Parade on Fifth Avenue what
was funny is like though the producer in
the distributor said Oscar be too
expensive nobody'll you know nobody'll
be there in those in the summertime in
New York they always say that there's
fuckin a hundred million people in New
York I go there in the summertime it's
packed with people if you like this
nothing happens in the summer in New
York link like I was doing a show down
there like wow this is really good I
mean it's a summer New York how are you
selling so many tickets like have you
looked around they have this weird
attitude that nothing happens in New
York in this summer yeah it's like
carried over from the 30s when there was
no air conditioning yeah so we had you
know we thought we couldn't get any more
attention on that second crazy is that
though the summer in New York
everybody's out
why what they said well the important
people they said are gonna be at the
Hamptons or they're gonna oh god oh my
god the important really say that to you
they said that the mail says that the
press wouldn't show up because at 9:30
at night nobody could afford overtime oh
but you know it looked like the Easter
Parade on Fifth Avenue yeah everybody
was wrong yeah and then we thought so we
thought okay that's that's it we can't
you know getting work the church than
that than the Pope called the Pope want
us to project on the Vatican during
cop21 whoa and then we had I think four
and a half billion media views you
should have taken all of the extinct
animal footage and replaced it with
child abuse footage Oh imagine that
all the cases of all the pedophile
priests of all I mean well there's a lot
of issues I'm only yeah there is I'm
concerned with the with the I understand
I understand one step at a time yeah
yeah that dirty place Vatican's a
strange place like yeah you walk around
there you go where did you get all this
money like what did you guys you guys
won't even sell anything like what you
know have fucking billions of dollars
and art and spectacular architecture and
everywhere you go the spoils of riches
and you're like what he's good where you
get this from
it's amazing place to visit just
historically just to see what it's like
and in Venice right now if you go like
the doge palace if you look at the
columns on that those are all different
you know what they did is a pilfered
Persia for that yes it so was you know
you had to bring it back when you were
trading the 17 1600s you had to bring
back stuff you stole yeah I was just
there I was just in Venice and now do
you know that what's going on right now
they have the worst flooding they've had
in 50 years yeah I saw the grid as I
stayed there at the gritty palaces
that's where we were and the lobby and I
was like four feet of water and the
lobby really yeah holy shit four feet of
water in the fucking lobby so what is
causing that well it's uh was a
combination of the taught that this time
of year the tides and the storms but
also you know the seas are raising you
know you have just a couple inches of of
ocean raising you can imagine there's
more water out yeah and it gets pushed
so how do you stay in the greedy palace
when the floor is water I don't think
you do stay in hey I think that's the
least of their problems right now
Wow we had you know we had a I look when
I lived in Boulder you know I wasn't in
a flood zone I looked at you know forth
and and juniper this is like it's a
radius of foothills and it wasn't you
know on the flood map but we had a two
thousand year flood and there was
furniture floating you know I had
furniture floating up against the
ceiling of my place I got you know
brought out by climate change
look at that Wow that's how bad the
flooding is yeah that's where we stayed
over the summer yeah gorgeous but weird
but it's like it's like a really
beautiful prostitute like do you do you
have to do this because like look at all
that shit floating by that's crazy how
high the water level is that's a
restaurant yeah Wow it's all underwater
is that outside the greedy palace I
around the corner yeah that's what it
looks like yeah the the cruise ships
would pull up and then you would see the
amount of people to get out and then the
the streets would be flooded and all the
people that live there would be like
this all just started happening like a
decade ago or the cruise ships were
allowed to pull right up and during the
week they were there they said they had
two accidents with cruise ships like
hitting docks and we played a video of
one of them it's fucking crazy you see
this gigantic boat and it's just coming
in II know it's gonna hit the dock and
you know it's gonna hit this boat in
front of it and everybody's running to
get out of the way and you see this like
that's a mountain some mountain that's
floating a floating Mountain that has no
ability maneuver correct look at the
size of that cut date I mean that is so
much bigger than any of the buildings
there and that things floating in and
banging into the walls and look at the
size our God look at the size of that
that is so insane and we wonder why
we're screwed that thing has nine floors
that is so crazy
look at that yeah there's probably
several thousand people right oh for
sure for many thousand and you know and
don't they just dump their waste right
into the ocean they did in the past I
don't know if they they do it now what
do they do now put it in a baggie
well this is one of the things they
found in LA I'm sure you're aware this
they did a satellite overview like an
image of methane they're trying to find
out where's the greenhouse gases where's
the biggest you know polluters it turns
out as landfills landfills a huge issue
you know this idea that there is that
the greenhouse gas thing the methane
leak this idea that you're gonna just
put it in the ground hey that doesn't
work it comes out of the ground what
yeah I told you we had a Tesla that we
had retrofit a permit for a racing
extinction I had a FLIR camera the same
camera that you used to see methane
mm-hmm it sees a spectrum it's not heat
but it's just it can see methane you're
gonna put another filter in so you can
see carbon dioxide
and so we had you know we went out on
the streets of LA and we went to we got
on to the tarmac and you know the the
carbon dioxide's a little bit at the
boogie man you can't see it but with
this camera you can see it and it's
pretty pretty astounding when you can
you know just you know right now if you
put it on us you look like we're smoking
mmm when you show it on the streets of
LA it's like everything's disgorging
bright yeah and there's no not enough
plants to absorb it
yeah you can't absorb it that quickly
but that's one of the beautiful things
about when you go to the woods there's
something about when you're in nature
and you're in the forest where you know
you like to persist specifically like
the Pacific Northwest which has he's
incredibly dense for us the air just has
a different quality to it and this is
rich oxygenated air cuz you know you're
just around all these trees and plants
it was a different feel to it that you
just don't get here ya know I was here
last week
Rob fro it is Jamie and I been planning
our escape we don't know what to do
though we're trying to figure it out
somewhere with the I think you can only
stay here a little while longer I came
here in 1994 and there was maybe 30
percent of the traffic that there is now
and I'm not exaggerating maybe 40
percent let's get crazy but this like
now it can be uh I can come home from
the economy store at 11 o'clock at night
and be stuck in bumper-to-bumper traffic
just bumper-to-bumper I worked for the
only times back in 1970s and I remember
3:00 in the morning they'd be like
without an accident on the road there
could be traffic backed up backed up
yeah yeah without an accent and I don't
you know back then I mean I'm probably I
don't hold to you 52 yeah so I'm like I
got a little bit 110 years on you but I
remember that this valley was always for
the first month I worked at the LA Times
the valley was just I couldn't see
anything and then one day cleared up and
in a review mirror I said I was living
north of town and North atomic Glendale
and in a rear view mirror I saw white
cap mountains and I thought why they
come from right
oh that scared me because yeah you can
see that from Woodland Hills from
Woodland Hills on a rainy day when the
rain comes in and washes it all away
like what the fuck is this
there's mountains right there you don't
see literally that the pollution so
dense it hides mountains but still
yes ok well that's because it today is a
beautiful day it's really a beautiful
day you get lucky what really helps us
is when the wind blows when the wind
blows it clears everything out and like
you can get to a high P later there's an
area where trail run and you get to this
really high peak and you could look out
at the top and pause and some days you
don't see jack shit you just see gray
and then some days after it rains you're
like this fucking mountains out here
like you don't like I want to take a
picture of the stark contrast you know
matter of fact I'm gonna run not
tomorrow but the next day when I get out
there I'm gonna take a photo and I'm
gonna try to take a few photos and try
to catch it when it rains cuz it's
supposed to rain sometime this week and
so get a difference between what it is
normally versus what it is when it rains
because the the difference is it's
stunning and it's all being hid by
pollution and we just have gotten
accustomed to it mmm yeah well I mean
catalytic converters helped a lot well
it also is helping a lot is this
conversion to electric cars and I really
hope people continue down that path you
know especially I mean it's they're
getting better at figuring out how to
charge them and better at battery
capacity and better and they're they're
better to drive I mean we were talking
about Tesla's I mean I have that Model S
I love that thing I mean it's amazing
it's in a just an amazing car it's not
you don't loot and I'm an automobile
enthusiast I love cars you don't lose
anything with that I mean it's more fun
than any other automatic car I've ever
driven yeah no I mean with I had one too
for a while but it I told you I had that
electroluminescent paint job and those
was a like you know so it's a it was a
nice one but I had to add one of the
first electric cars in Colorado back in
like 2007 I only do look like two other
ones and I had 120 solar panels on my my
roof so I didn't pay for electricity
real
the roof of your house you can have a
look at my own yeah um did you see that
documentary who killed the electric car
yeah Chris Payne he's a good friend very
interesting right yeah and and revenge
the electric car it was this follow-up
to it uh oh I didn't see that yeah it's
a good one you know I think it's better
than the first one actually but you know
I would tell my neighbors like hey I
don't pay for electricity my license
plate said V us stood for a vehicle
using Sun it was the opposite of an SUV
and I mean I got checks from an electric
electric company I didn't have bills I
had checks because you're contributing
to the grid yeah so we had you know net
metering and I thought I just discovered
something I was just incredible but you
don't everybody said you know I was
doing it just to prove that I could you
know you could do it back then yeah and
you know neighbors would say what but
how much does it cost and it's like well
it's you know we should all be you know
you have to be a people have to be early
adopters before you can get it to scale
so I was an early adopter but I think
even with everything that we know what's
going on that people are still saying
they're not gonna switch over till it's
cheaper it's a little bit better and
it's cheaper and you know Elon I think
he's got the right idea make it a little
make it a lot better and eventually it's
gonna be cheaper I mean the the Model
S's is a great car but the model 3
someone crazy
yeah and it's a fantastic car as well
and that model 3 it's preposterous you
know I have a Porsche 911 gt3 and it's a
pretty fast car
this guy humiliated me today I wasn't
trying to race him but I think he was
trying to prove a point we're at a red
light and the light turned green and he
shot ahead of me and gone to the highway
so fast I was like laughing I was like
look I wasn't trying to race the guy but
if I was it would have been a bloodbath
you said you keep yours on ludicrous
mode all the time
oh mine yeah my Model S yeah I do I keep
it on ludicrous mode but you don't have
to drive it ludicrous that's on
ludicrous mode you could drive it normal
but anytime you want to just dump on the
the accelerator it's just whoa it
literally feels like it's violating some
sort of laws of physics like it just it
does something with time you know like
you're not supposed to be able to get
there that quick you have
you have a thing in your mind when
you're drivin a car well if I want to
get in front of that car it's going to
take X amount of seconds even if I
really accelerate it'll take some time
for and get up before I can change lanes
with that thing's just shoot you just go
and you people that have never been in
one before I take him for a drive in the
Tesla and they they grip the seat and
like what the fuck everybody says the
same thing like what the or holy shit
those are the two things they say
because it doesn't seem like it should
be able to do that I think it looks like
I said Dan that's like it's like a
regular car and I talk you know I've got
like a old muscle car I've got a couple
cars that look fast and like that car
that regular sedan Luton car five times
faster than anything here and zero
emissions but you know we're in this
transitionary period and I think the
future is pretty bright for that stuff
Mustang just Ford just released the
concept of this new vehicle that they're
releasing very soon it's like a Mustang
crossover ECAR it's it's all beautiful
it's really cool-looking it looks like
like a larger Mustang like a taller
Mustang but it's all electric and Elon
praised it today that Ford is going out
on a limb and making something like that
cool you know and then Porsche is
releasing their their version it's
called at I can and that's I think
that's I say it it's a beautiful looking
sleek looking electric car so we're
moving in that direction yeah I mean
there's a there's a great Tony Sabre the
Futurist he shows a picture of the 1905
and the 1980 stir parade in New York
City and it's all horses looking down
from a building know if you find it
Jamie 1905 the night tonight at Easter
Parade and it's like there's one car and
then 13 years later it's like find the
horse and that these transitions they
take you know about 10 12 years you know
you know 12 years ago we were punching
the number two key on our flip phone six
times to text a capital C
you know I think we're you know we're
gonna be doing the same thing with you
know with uh with you know the
transition with food I think it's gonna
be going that way you know you you think
that they're gonna be do you have hope
for all this lab-created meet woody what
do you think about I mean I know there's
there's some process that I don't
totally understand where they're able to
make actual biological like bison meat
yeah me I'm doing a film series right
now called food 2.0 and I had dinner on
Saturday night two nights ago with Omaha
the guy that founded Matt Memphis meats
and you know I have the same sort of
achiness about you know going that
direction but he showed me these
pictures on his flip on his phone of
this chicken breast that he's making and
you know I stopped eating meat about ten
years ago but I thought it didn't look
bad you know look at he had like it it
chopped you know so that it was grilled
and I thought you know I have this sort
of rapport of revulsion against it
myself because I've you know become
myself off of it but I looked I looked
at that and I thought you know what that
that looks really edible it looks good
to do somebody that that could eat meat
you know that that would be appetizing
yeah it seems like the science it once
well whatever it is right it's tissue
and whatever that tissue is it's
composed of a bunch of different natural
ingredients right whatever whatever
creates a turkey breast it seems like
it's just a matter of innovation and
technology and proving to the point
where they could recreate that ya know
the question is you know is that you
know is that better for you then you
know the Whole Foods plant-based diet or
that's the real question
right cuz that's where things get
convoluted what like what what is
healthy versus what is ethical versus
what makes you feel like you're doing
the right thing morally yeah you know
the way you know I stopped eating you
know meat about 1986 I went to I was
doing a story for Fortune magazine on
the biggest independently owned cattle
ranches in America and there's one that
was so big in Oklahoma they had
slaughterhouse and they supposed to you
know they kill the animal with this
captive bolt to the brain is supposed to
happen instantly but there was one
animal that came around and it was still
alive and it was at that point it was
hanging upside down and its flesh and
its hide was stripped off and it's
looking at me with this eye and it's
following my eye as this hide was
stripped off and it was still alive yep
and it's in as its turning around it was
during his head and it still held my eye
and I thought the son of a bitch is
alive and I'm part of part of this so I
stopped eating meat shortly after that
and so I thought well I have to eat
something
right but I have to eat an animal
product because you know you're gonna
shrivel up and die if you don't
and then so I became a pescetarian
that's all I ate for animal protein well
you know did milk and dairy but I didn't
eat any thing any limited my Satou
myself two things out that didn't walk
there that one that didn't walk so fish
was like fair territory for me and then
when we made the cove there's a scene in
it where we take a sample of hair from
the Deputy Minister of Fisheries there
and we tested for mercury and when we
were you know why it was out at the lab
I thought I'll get mine tested too cuz I
was I ate a lot of fish I loved it my
son's still a professional fisherman and
I had a freezer full of fish all the
time stocked up of you know fresh ocean
weather not fresh but frozen ocean fish
and I had it for breakfast lunch and
dinner all the time then when you know
we got his labs back as sample back it
was eight times higher than was high
which is like you know you don't want
any mercury in your body Mercury's most
toxic non radioactive element in the
world and my levels were forty four
times how were you experiencing any
physical yeah that's that I was having
trouble with my short-term memory I had
an ache in my shoulder that was there
for probably decades and I you know I
try to get a massage doubt and then if
you start looking through the you know
the problems with with mercury you
notice that there's a whole litany of
things that it causes depending on how
bad you have it but my doctor said it's
the worst he'd ever seen in Colorado so
I had to get off of it and then I you
know this is so we're here
in LA for the Academy Awards and I met
my first vegan and I said what do you
eat
and she goes everything else you know
all protein originates with plants and
that was how I got started
it took you know I thought okay well
mercury has a half-life in your body of
about 70 to 90 days and so it took me
about two years to get it down and I
thought all just trials two years to get
it down why'd it take so long because it
has a half-life at your body of 70 to 90
days so 44 goes to 20 to 90 to 180 so
yeah so I thought okay then I'll start
eating a little bit of fish and then oh
I know I had a tester right away in a
jack back up I thought okay I can't be
sauce all fish is poison all big fish is
poisoned for sure no fish like tuna
swordfish Marlin where's the
recommendations they tell you not
supposed to eat it more than a couple
times a week or something like that but
it seems like if it's got a half-life of
I don't trust any of that I mean like
like I mean I can't mess with it me if
he's when I was in Japan I went to
Minamata where they had they called
Minamata disease but it's not a disease
it's poisoned this was a company that
was intentionally polluting the bay
where there's a lot of fishermen and the
kids of course got it well the cats got
affected first because people give the
the fish to the cats and the cats would
have had called dancing cat disease you
know you heard the expression mad as a
hatter that's because they had the felt
from a hundred year 150 years ago they
used to cure the felt the beaver felt on
top hats but they would use the mercury
in the met the adders would go mad in
Minamata the cats got affected than the
kids and then you know the the people a
couple hundred thousand people got
affected and at least we remember this
is 1950s or remote remote villages and
an American researcher went there and
saw that everybody looked weird and said
something's going on here and he found
out that they were dumping you know
mercury into the bay and I saw visited a
doctor there that study Minamata disease
he was a guy that was in charge of
figuring out compensation for out with
what they owe people and he showed me
these brains of you know they sliced
open and it looked like Swiss cheese
what we're talking about the
convolutions
of the brain and how dolphins have more
of them same thing with people but you
know and the ones with the slices that
look like Swiss cheese or the this whole
set of it's the mercury is heating up in
the brain and so you don't want you know
once you see that you said you don't
want that your body so I had to get off
fish and become a vegan not bike for
ethical reasons but because of I just
couldn't eat it just for health reasons
but I'm doing just fine how fucking
crazy is that that most fish is poison
like that is that is such a crazy thing
to think that the ocean is so fucked up
that most of the food you pull out of
the ocean is a mess well I mean most of
the fish that we're eating I think 54%
is farm-raised and whatever it but again
I I just read it this morning and Los
Angeles maggots worse right it's worse
yeah and you know the ecological damage
it's doing is it was crazy the the
health consequences is crazy
so the question is then what do we eat I
know about mollusks so one of the things
that someone told me that was actually
someone who's a vegan told me about
mollusks I said you can make an ethical
argument that mouths are actually less
complicated life-forms and even plants
they don't have the same nerve endings
they don't really move they open and
shut and they're a viable form of animal
protein that is just so primitive it's
hurt that yeah that's did they're just
not we think of them as life forms but
so is broccoli that's a life form as
well but there there's actually more
evidence that plants are intelligent
then there is that mollusks our mouths
are an incredibly ancient life-form but
then again don't you get some sort of
mercury poisoning from them as well well
they're on the bottom right usually and
they're they're filtering so you're
you're getting whatever poised would
whatever toxins are I'm not gonna say
that money no Malick's are poison I just
wouldn't eat it I'm going a completely
different direction
but I've heard that before that mouth
sir you can farm them too right mm-hmm
you can I mean if we really can break
that they're even more primitive but yet
more nutritious you know the like you
know I did a story in Polynesia and on
stirs and they have the big oysters that
they get no but do for pearls and they
they don't they just eat the muscle that
holds all the the organs and stuff on
you know when I said oh in America we
eat the whole Orchestra they're like
what you know because the muscle tastes
like like fish flesh it's actually
pretty good but you know the idea that
we're eating all those other filtered or
organs and stuff I just don't know I
don't but you don't know you know I
don't know no has anybody come up with
any sort of comprehensive plan or
anything that makes sense where they can
viably repopulate the ocean I mean the
idea of stopping and slowing down
fishing would be wonderful but it's I
mean if we if it really gets to a point
where we've got to somehow or another
independently grow these fish and
reintroduce them to the wild mean is
there any talk of doing things like that
or is it even impossible I think it's
impossible the scale of what's going on
right now you know when I was in Japan
they were saying that all we used to go
out all you know we could fill up a boat
a day now it's you know eight days now
we have to then we have to go out 30 and
we're competing with the you know the
Koreans the Chinese the Taiwanese you
know it's it's and everybody's just
going gangbusters and we have we're
using military gear - you know sonar to
catch things that this unprecedented
rate it's not sustainable I personally
don't believe that fishing - feeding
this planet currently you can do it with
fish I don't think you can do it with
you know and we know what's you know
that the unethical aside of raising you
know farm animals for this is it's just
I think we have to transition to another
form I think it's gonna be you know 10
or 12 years but I think we're headed
that direction and people I think what
you're seeing now is that there's a
direction towards trying to know people
want to eat healthier that they want to
eat sustainable and I know I know you're
a hunter
I mean I was 102 I hunted fish
you know I understand like when you come
back with the goods you come back with
an animal and you're feeding your family
you're feeding your friends you feel
like the man you don't feel like you
know you there's something you tap and
that's really primitive in a you know in
a really genuine way that makes us feel
good about who we are that you're
providing and I know that that happened
when I when I was a fisherman you know
you go hunt a fish with your friends and
there's a group thing going on and you
everybody's there they're enjoying
themselves and it feels wonderful but we
can't do it with wild fish and you know
with four percent of the biomass P and
while the animals now and the rest of it
being we it's not sustainable and I wish
it was because that that so there's
something we lost with that but we have
to transition we're at that period right
now where we have to figure out how do
you feed a planet that's the real
problem
right and not just how do you feed a
planet how do you feed a planet that may
double its population the next 50 years
yeah well it's this to talking 10
billion by 2050 and we're already at a
point where you know we're at the 20
years past that it might really be
double it might be 15 million or excuse
me
billion people that's crazy so you know
you can't have 18 and a half million
people in the Greater Los Angeles area
going out and hunting for their food or
fishing from you know so what are we
gonna eat you know and I I think we you
know the the way to do it is you know
drifting more towards plants getting you
know I was last week I was in Loma Linda
California you know where that's at
you've heard about the Blue Zone yeah
and you know so the people out there
that don't might not know about it's Dan
Buettner Geographic fellow popularized
the idea that there's these five
geographic regions the plan of where
people live longer and without chronic
disease than any other place on the
planet so I was out there last week at
the BRIT the brain health and Alzheimer
clinic and there's two researchers that
started when there wasn't one for miles
around and they opened it with 1 out of
3 people in America and
the next 10 years gonna be affected by
Alzheimer's either they're gonna have it
their mates gonna have it there would be
taken care of somebody has it their
parents so it's gonna overtake heart
disease is our number one disease that
we have they open up the brain health
clinic there with an Alzheimer clinic
and nobody came now about half the
population of seventh-day adventists
that are vegetarians by religion and you
go to the grocery store they don't sell
me you go to they have milk they have
cow's milk but it's on the bottom shelf
there yourself a few things of it I've
and they to find people initially they
had to go to San Bernardino across the
across the highway there there's nothing
different geologically different between
San Bernardino's in Loma Linda
it's the reticle they're you know
drinking the same water breathing the
same air but they have a different diet
but they're living about 10 years longer
than everybody have on San Bernardino is
one of the unhealthiest populations in
America and another side of highway 10
you have one of the healthiest
populations in the entire world and
they're living about ten years on
average longer they're doing other
things too it's not just diet it's well
it's a big factors sleep I mean dr.
Matthew Walker has been on this podcast
who's so well renowned sleep scientist
was discussing that it's one of the
biggest corollary one of the biggest
factors where they've determined that
the less sleep you have the higher
likelihood you have of Alzheimer's
disease and it's really stark like that
the numbers are they're they're they're
pretty undisputable yeah well III agree
there's they have four principles a you
know the the shores eyes you know Dean
and Isis sure aside sleep is one of them
yeah Whole Foods plant-based diet
support you know they the community
support and an exercise those are those
are the big ones
yeah but they out of the 3,000 people
that they have in the Alzheimer's clinic
clinic now only 19 of them we're sorry
only 13 of them are vegetarians and
three vegans so I mean you look at you
know if you look at if you break it down
the population like how many of the
24,000 people there that are vegetarians
about 15 percent you would expect you
know several hundred of them to be you
know with Alzheimer's to be vegetarians
but there's so many of them are follow
that seventh-day adventists diet which
is vegetarian yeah but what you're
talking about
San Bernardino's a very poor community
unfortunately and I think you know as
well as I do a lot of people in poor
communities heat terrible the stream
eating junk food and sugar and all that
crap I mean that that's one of the
primary factors when it comes to poor
health and education is related
definitely to brain health unfortunately
and it says does to do that there's
they're stupid but it's just that
they're you're right they're not that
they're not eating as well they have to
you know the first McDonald's was in San
Bernardino you know was it really yeah
there was we went to the museum there
with McDonald's museum they have a
McDonald's Museum cuz they have all the
Ronald McDonald's from the beginning to
the end everything you know yeah but it
is so that they've been really good
about keeping fast food out of out of
Loma Linda for them it's in their giant
concerns even with large scale
agriculture when you're talking about
mono crops and growing things for 15
billion people you're gonna need
gigantic swaths of land it's going to
displace a lot of wildlife you're gonna
have a lot of different chemicals to get
released into the ground unless you're
doing regenerative farming in which case
you're gonna have to use some animal
products anyway because you have compost
and fertilizer you need fish for
fertilizer or something that creates
nitrogen you know there's a lot of
issues even with large-scale agriculture
when you're growing crops you're doing
something that's wholly unnatural if you
have you know a thousand acres of corn
or soybeans or anything that you're
growing in large-scale that's not not
how nature intends it nature intends
everything to be combined together right
but if you look at the amount of crops
that are out there the most land is
being used to grow crops to feed animals
so you know well sort of a lot of its
being used for feed animals a lot of
it's being used for corn syrup and a lot
of different methods and we could get
rid of it you know I mean yeah I mean
you've seen king corn right yeah that's
that's pretty fucking crazy when they
check your DNA and they find out how
much of your DNA is corn-based you know
like what like what is going on how much
your your your cellular structure is
corn-based it's like how much corn is in
your diet and then you go through the
supermarket
go and pick up box after box and read
how much corn is in there corn starch
corn syrup different proteins that
they've extracted from corn well let me
ask you how do you think the you know if
we have to feed 10-15 billion people in
the future how do you think of a
question you know we should be feeding
the population it's a good question it's
a very good question I have hope for
this is fake meat shit not not the
plant-based stuff where they're using
oils and the but the actual physical
meat that they can figure out some way
to create meat without animals die like
I am NOT a fan of factory farming it's
the reason why I got into hunting in the
first place I saw a lot of those PETA
documentaries and I just didn't want to
have any part of any of that shit and I
know there are ethical ranchers that
raise their animals grass-fed and they
let them roam and you know there's a guy
named Joel Salatin who has this some
thing called Polyface farms where he he
teaches people regenerative farming
methods and teaches people how to let
animals be animals and the polar
opposite of factory farming when you see
these and I'm sure you've seen some of
these disgusting videos of these pig
farms where they have lakes of sewage
attached to these farms where these pigs
are in these warehouses stacked in one
on top of the other and then they're all
their waste goes down through the floor
and into these giant huge lakes of shit
and piss they spray it on the crops
stuff I don't know if they spray that on
the cross but it lasts into the ground
there's spray the pissed pig and shit oh
no oh yeah well look all that stuff is
wrong I mean all of its wrong I mean but
there were chickens raising chickens
like that or cows like that or pigs like
that and there's a reason why they have
these ag-gag laws and those are another
thing that are it can in my eyes - the
same thing that the way we feel about
dolphins in captivity in a place like
SeaWorld those ag-gag laws agricultural
gag laws they keep people from divulging
the horrors of these factory farms and
there's there's got to be a way to stop
those laws first of all the
you you should these places should be
transparent if there's something there
do that's abhorrent and something they
do with you you could see the lives of
these animals then they're treated in
these horrific ways it's not necessary
that's nuts it's just they're doing that
for profit and this is why you can get a
chicken sandwich for a dollar
ninety-nine or whatever the fuck it is
yeah I mean if you know the saying if
slaughterhouses had glass walls yes
right
yeah going back to it though I mean it
was so how do you it so glad meat you
think would be those I think lab Meade
has real potential the same way cell
phones used to cost you know a thousand
dollars what not more than that like
what was uh it was like none of those
big mold a roll of bricks remember those
things that like I do Gordon Gekko had
and Wall Street they were really
expensive like when he was walking down
the beach with that thing like wow that
guy's a baller he's got a phone he's
just walking with no cord now everyone
has a phone I mean I was in Brazil and
you know these people are walking around
and you know very little money but they
all had phones if cell phones have made
their way throughout and virtually all
of the world how much order in for
gratitude for so four grand in 82 is
probably what today twenty probably like
20 right sure yeah lots a lot even if
it's four grand if you imagine if a
fucking iPhone was four grand people be
going crazy the new ones almost 2 grand
and everybody's going crazy
so that's just I think that sort of
technological innovation and improvement
I think we were gonna see that in this
sort of factory created meat because the
original factory created burger that
they made I believe it was a quarter of
a million dollars that it costs to
create one and people ate it and they're
like this is beef this is like real beef
I think with innovation there they could
figure out a way to do that so we don't
ever have to have these factory farming
situations I mean I think that's
possible ya know I think it is - when
I've talked to some of the people that
are working on that and we need to look
at how fast cells can reproduce and we
know it's just a matter of scale on
getting the right texture taste yeah
look I'm I know I'm not under no
illusion that what I do is available to
everybody I go hunting in the mountains
most people don't want to do that you
know and I do it with a bow and arrow no
most people don't want to learn how to
do that they don't have it in them they
don't want it it's not interesting to me
it is if I shoot one elk that is 400
pounds of meat one life feeds me for a
year and I feed my friends I feed a lot
of people I give elk meat out to a bunch
of people I under no illusion that
everyone can do that
but this everyone can't do most of the
things that I do I just do it because it
makes me feel better than going and
getting something that's factory farmed
if I saw what they did to chickens and I
knew that my chicken had come from these
horrific environments and I ate that I
feel sick yeah and so that's why I
became a hunter in the first place yeah
well that's how you know what we concern
ourselves is like how can like yeah you
and I can eat you probably better than
me but I can eat how I want to eat
doesn't that sound weird you say I eat
better than you know what you can afford
more is what I'm saying you're what I'm
telling you I'm getting my meat from the
woods well then I'm not saying better
I'm saying that you did you could eat
how you want Oh easy er than me and I
say those I'm not financially
I've seen the what you have around here
there's no nice little nice little cozy
Mandan you have down here but boys you
should see what's out there it's like
the ultimate it's a man cave man yeah
knocking man but man cave man cave man
would be a giant Neanderthal but yeah
look this it's a the conversation
between I mean I don't have a gang of
friends that are vegan and vegetarian
one of my best friends was Ian Edwards
I love them to death I I don't I don't
dispute that we're in a conundrum and
then we're in a terrible situation as a
civilization we've certainly
overpopulated the planet in many ways
and we've certainly allowed something to
take root in
society that I think is disgusting
that's factory farming of animals
there's there's something vile about it
undeniably vile and there's a reason why
people are prosecuted for exposing what
makes everybody sick look if they
exposed it and said look I'm gonna take
a picture I'm gonna show you a video of
how these cows are living and you take
the video and cows just wandering around
eating grass no one would give a shit
right right it's when you see these
people kicking these cows and when you
see them alive when like kosher the way
they do that where they have to slice
their throat and they have to do it with
one cut and this is why people want
kosher meat like there's some ancient
ridiculous idea of how to dispose of a
life who mean all those things sicken
people which is the reason why they have
those laws keeping people who work there
from videotaping exposing it in the
first place yeah I think the King
amendment and I didn't believe what it
is he's from Iowa or at least he was I
don't not sure if he's still even in in
power there but yeah I made it better if
people saw if people saw how they got
there you know how milk is done and I
know you're a proponent of milk but if
you saw that not really I don't drink it
no I if I drink four glasses of milk a
year it's a lot oh yeah I don't think
it's good for you
I think raw milk is probably better for
you but every time I drink a glass of
milk
I always feel gross I feel like the
homogenous Asian and pasteurization of
milk you're you're breaking down all the
enzymes and boiling it and what you get
is some weird protein that your body
doesn't exactly know how to process
correctly there's a reason why so many
people get like horrible gas off of it
you know there's a 65% of the population
of the world's lactose intolerant a nine
year old she's lactose intolerance kind
of aiming with cheese or milk or
anything I didn't figure that out Allah
is like fifty that was lactose
intolerant I mean really I mean you know
I should have figured it out but I
thought it was normal I think my
daughter gets it from me I've never I
mean I can eat our ice cream and I'm
okay but I always feel like shit it
never makes me feel good afterwards
always feeling wolf-like like I'll have
cookies and milk and
oh it's just uh it's a weird it's like
my body's like what is this
but however I've had raw milk and I
haven't had any problems with it and I
just think it's and you know there's a
big problem with the you know acquiring
raw milk it's very hard it yet but I
think if any if people are gonna drink
milk at all that's how we're supposed to
drink it I don't think we're supposed to
be boiling that stuff and and then you
know it comes out it's dead
that's why look you're not supposed to
have anything biological they can sit in
your fucking refrigerator for two weeks
and not stink like how is that and you
look at the date the date is like a
month like how the fuck is this gonna
stay good for a month because they boil
the shit out of it
and look if you want to if you want to
serve milk to 300 million people that's
how you have to do it if you want to get
it in containers and travel across the
country in these trucks and get it to
supermarkets and have it sit in the self
and have it be sit on the shelf and have
it be financially viable for them to be
able to hold on to it long enough for
them to sell it and turn a profit and
then have no one gets sick from it
because like raw milk is good for like a
couple of days and that's it and it used
to be that people got their milk
delivered on their doorstop you know the
milkman that was the thing milk managed
to come to your house and you didn't
even really have a lid it had like that
little remember yeah a little paper
thing that you'd pull off so we had as a
kid and it was fresh and the cream would
sit on the top of it it just tasted
different no I've had raw milk I haven't
had in years
but the last time I had raw milk goes
like this it's just taste better it
tastes like when you drink it it feels
like your body is like oh I know what
this is
whereas like a regular glass of milk my
body's like what in the fuck and then
you got to think about how they get it
right like how they keep these cows
pregnant and the the process of
acquiring billions of gallons of milk
for millions and millions of people it's
kind of gross you know not even kind of
agree yeah but however almond milks
disgusting you don't drink that shit do
you how do you say this this is a
surprise it's just not milk man almonds
don't have tits
we're not doing to that water you know
just have a glass of water drink some
juice or something I mean it mean it's
just got to be some benefit the hell I
mean almonds are good for you right but
almonds are a real problem in California
ecologically because they're not a water
they totally agree yeah now I'm soiled
sort of my milk is choice or don't yeah
yeah just drink water man I agree
plastic okay
I know do something about that we've
been talking forever we're gonna we're
gonna develop some sort of a system here
what do you recommend for us laughs
right go where - wish we'd get our water
from so we get filtered water especially
we get spring water
I think filtered water is probably good
bike and/or box water that's the thing
though yeah but I use a paper yeah just
a big yeah yeah we're working a film on
plastic pollution right now and we're
trying to think like how do you how do
you it's a big problem like you look at
the oceans we've had boy onslaught on
and we're gonna hit him on again these
the guy has created that yeah he came to
visit me too or where I work he's got
ones for the rivers have you seen the
new ones that he's I saw that yeah a
couple weeks ago I think they're yeah
something he's already got them working
but the here's the issue I bet that I'm
learning from this is guy Andrew Forrest
uh one of the wealthiest guys and in
Australia told me that it's this isn't
the problem it's that you haven't cheap
plastic made and you know Saudi Arabia
and America and it's being exported to
there's ten eleven rivers are where the
majority of the plastic in the ocean are
coming from and they it's it's not
recyclable the rivers is where the
plastics coming from what do you mean
there's there's about ten to twelve
rivers over in Southeast Asia where that
generate a lot of most of the plastic
that you see how in the river what is
what is all people okay so like in
Indonesia for instance you have 17,000
islands but only ten recycling plants
right places to do it so there's you
know there's no way that there's nowhere
to throw it so they throw it in
in the you know out in the ocean oh
you're saying the garbage is in these
rivers the creation of the plastic the
creation of the plastic comes from
American I come from Europe and it comes
from Saudi Arabia right right I see what
you're saying so and but the the the
volume most the volume is coming from
these ten to twelve rivers in Southeast
Asia you have to make plastic cost
enough so that the first of all that
they can make it recyclable so that you
know there's different ways to make
polymers so that they can recycle it
they just do the cheapest way possible
because they know it's not coming back
right so you have to put it either
you have to put a tax on virgin plastic
to make it valuable for people to be
able to recycle it otherwise great
solution is hemp plastic it's
biodegradable and comes from this plant
meaning you can make hemp plastic and we
can grow it and it's an easy crop is
that scalable yes hemp is so weird it
doesn't even seem like it should be real
I mean it really doesn't it's it's an
it's an insane plant I mean you can make
hempcrete out of it which is far better
than any building material we currently
use it's far more resistant to flame
there's there's just so many positive
benefits of it in terms of insulation
the insulation factors better than wood
or plywood it's really lightweight but
incredibly strong if you were like
grabbed a thick hemp stalk if you ever
held onto one no it doesn't seem real
it's hard like this oak but yet it's
light like balsa wood it's so strange it
feels like it comes from another planet
Wow hemp is an extraordinary planet it's
a most extraordinary plant we have first
of all it has all the essential amino
acids I love hemp protein it's one of my
favorite proteins for we salad it on it
we sell hemp protein it's one of the
very best proteins in terms of being
able to mix it and like a protein shake
and on the go your body digests it super
easily and it's like filled with amino
acids it's very easy for your body
digestive process you can make oil out
of it that they used to use for fucking
for heating lamps you can cook your food
in it it I mean there's so many
different things you can do with hemp
you can make clothing you can
far more durable cloth far more durable
the paper is far superior in fact the
whole reason why William Randolph Hearst
demonized marijuana in the first place
was to protect his business because he
had paper mills and he was trying to
protect it from hemp because on the
cover of popular science magazine they
had come out with a dcor Decatur decore
Decatur was a way in the 1930s they
devised to effectively process hemp
fiber because for years they used to use
slaves to process hemp then when they
figured out the cotton gen cotton became
easier to use and then slavery became
outlawed and so people who shied away
from hemp well they came up with this
decor Decatur in the 1930s it was on the
cover of popular science magazine hemp
the new billion-dollar crop well William
Randolph Hearst didn't just own Hearst
publications and newspapers he also are
owned these huge forests that they were
making paper with so he along with Harry
Anslinger and using his newspapers
demonized marijuana to stop the
commodity of hemp yes no idea he funded
all those fucking crazy marijuana movies
reefer madness all that shit that was
all him they came up with these stories
that these Mexicans and black men were
taking this new drug called marijuana
marijuana wasn't even a term for
cannabis marijuana was a term for a wild
tobacco so they came up with his new
name they called it this drug everybody
freaked out because they didn't have the
internet back then no one had access to
real information other than Hearst
Newspapers Hearst publications so he's
just fucking out now lied and made up
these crazy stories and funded these
documentaries and then marijuana became
illegal and still is to this day and he
still have knuckleheads like Joe Biden
literally yesterday saying that he
thinks marijuana is a gateway drug well
we're still in this band but forget
about marijuana imagine if it wasn't
psychoactive at all the idea that hemp
should be illegal until really recently
in this country is a fucking travesty
it's horrific its food its clothes it's
paper it doesn't even make sense that it
could be so many
it's literally like one of the most
positive plants the Earth's ever known
okay I'll vote for it man dude you
should do a national documentary on that
I think you got the Joe Biden easy ah
Joe fuck you too late there's a lot to
talk on here where I stand a one hour
ago I put my fucking Instagram post out
this morning it's got they did this was
basically it a well worded thing saying
that anyone who thinks that marijuana
should be legal is basically saying you
should be locked in a cage for
experimenting with your consciousness
and the freedom to to to do whatever you
want with your body that is especially
with marijuana that's not poisonous no
one's died of it everyone ever and they
history the human race is never a single
overdose for marijuana and this
knucklehead saying that it's a gateway
drug no pain is a gateway drug Strama is
a gateway drug abuse is a gateway to
drugs it's not marijuana marijuana is
just a time-honored psychedelic
substance that people have been enjoying
for thousands and thousands of years
they should run for Congress fuck that
I'm not running for anything I'm not
even running for my neighborhood it's
whatever the hell it is I just saw a
poster over there did he run for mayor
it was that a joke
what post don't know I thought that
supposed to oh it's a hundred percent a
joke look I'm not ever running for
anything ever
well it was for those right next to
Hunter Thompson for mayor and I thought
well maybe there was some truth to it no
Hunter Thompson for sheriff but there's
nothing Jeremy or anything for me right
I don't think notice Hunter Thompson
That's not me look I'm not running for
anything ever I have three jobs and
three kids I'm busy and I have a lot of
hobbies too many hobbies I'm trying to
chip away at hobbies but if I can get
Joe Biden to shut the fuck up I'm very
happy crazy asshole there's so many
people that smoke pot in this country
he's so crazy for him to come out
against that is so goddamn dumb how do
you smoke pot on the show and still hold
a conversation though I say
we doing for yourself I'm a STONER
I know how to do it I've been doing it
forever look one of the things that I
said in my Instagram post today
marijuana is not for everybody and I
think it should be used carefully
because look I've said a lot of dumb
shit when I've been high I've thought a
lot of dumb shit I've been paranoid it's
not for everybody I think it should be
treated cautiously but there's a lot of
benefits to it I really firmly believe
that it's made me a more sensitive
person it's made me more interested in
community it's made me more aware of how
important it is that we're all connected
and that we all converse with each other
in a calm way it's made me feel better
about about a happy communication with
people it's made me more affectionate
it's made me more compassionate more
kind as it makes me more aware you know
that the feeling of paranoia one of the
things that that paranoia is it's just
an overall expanding of your awareness
of your vulnerability of all the things
you've done it because you had a lot of
hats and a career do you find this the
most satisfying to you with the podcast
yeah mom made this and stand up I mean
this is the standup is more complicated
right because there's got to be an end
result it has to be funny or is this the
beautiful thing about this is I've been
able to expose a lot of people to things
like The Cove like you and your work
like means so many different doctors and
scientists and astrophysicists and and
dr. dr. Matthew Walker that we talked
about earlier we're explaining sleep and
how important this really is this isn't
just something that you feel better if
you get more sleep no it's like
long-term for your life these are all
little bits of information that I think
it's very difficult for people to absorb
just by going out and reading studies
right so the next best thing is reading
a book well the next best thing is me
having a person who wrote that book on
on a podcast to talk about it and maybe
not even the next best thing it might be
the best best thing because it it's
absorbable it's it's a conversation with
people and it's to me I've gotten a
fantastic education from it to being
able to talk to thousands of brilliant
people or or hundreds at least so
brilliant people and pick their brain
and and just with genuine curiosity just
ask them
and you know and read their book and
then try to have like like try to have
an understanding of it like and try to
when they come on the show try to get
them to fill in my blanks and in turn
educate the audience on things that may
be a little bit complicated for them to
comprehend and it's just to me it's it's
something that was completely unexpected
I didn't ever plan on doing this I just
started doing it and then it just kind
of became what it is now so it's very
satisfying that people like it you know
when I talked to people and they say I
mean I can't tell you how many people
have run into it said it's like changed
their life it's changed their
perspective so many people said you know
once I started I was gonna be on the
edge was gonna be in the show they said
we got to see this podcast this but I
spent two weeks just that was my day job
is like listening to you know interviews
that you've done I just felt totally
captivated and envious of the position
that you're on to be able to have people
and talk about a wide range of stuff
when I do a film it's it's so targeted
that I'm needing them to fill in a blank
it's just a I need two or three minutes
so I might I might talk as long but as
it's just you know I've got this list of
a shopping list of things I need to
cover and here you you you just have a
conversation now that's a lot it's a lot
different and it seems like a lot more
fun it's a lot more fun like when you
said the beginning of this like what
kind of research have you done to
prepare for this I'm like fortunately I
get to pick who I talk to
and for you I mean I knew that you had
directed the cove and that the subject
of dolphins has been I mean was a huge
bit on my 2016 Netflix special about an
experience that I had when I was in
Hawaii high as fuck on edibles and we
ran into this patch of wild dolphins and
they were playing with us they're
playing with us and we were yelling like
yeah and they would jump how they want
to do flips for you they were putting on
a show and I remember having this
thought like holy shit they're playing
with us these are these wild creatures
and they're having fun with us and then
I started doing all this research on
dolphins and dolphin communication
assess with dolphins because this one I
mean I had I had been fascinated by them
before but I became truly obsessed and
this was this experience was more than
ten years ago and since then I've just
I've been overwhelmed and and also
massively disheartened by just you know
by films like yours and by seeing
SeaWorld and by seeing what was going on
in marine land with my friend Phil and
I've had him on a bunch of times to talk
about his lawsuits I mean they have done
everything they can to try to silence
that guy and stop him from revealing all
the horrors to that place but slowly but
surely he's had a massive impact on that
places business to the point where
they're trying to just get him to shut
up and he won't he won't meaning he was
I mean he was on the inside he was a
trainer and all that stuff so for me to
be able to talk to someone like you it's
it's you know it's I love the fact that
we can get that out there well I
appreciate it you know I mean it's you
know swimming with dolphins in the wild
there was a trigger to memory over in
ranga rao's with with our team and there
was three groups a resident dolphins
that so they were there hanging out
there all the time you get to recognize
them and we were playing with them and
the more you play with them the more you
can spin around the more you can you
know the more excited they get yeah and
they could only do it for so long and I
remember once that we were doing it we
finally we were we had scooters and we
thought well the more if so a dolphin
looks at you and you can you look like
you're like in a wheelchair but you know
in the water we just look like ya know
we're just pitiful
yeah then so they can only be
entertained so Long's but the scooters
we figured we could engage them a lot
longer and then all of a sudden this
group just took off and there was sort
of that you're let down because you have
this you're high from the experience of
being with them in the wild
and they took off then we saw that there
were it was about an 18 foot long
hammerhead and they were taking turns
ramming it away from us
yeah so it was like not only were they
playing with us they were protecting us
wow that must been wild though seeing an
18 foot long hammerhead hole yeah
because they disappeared into the blue
and then we could see them ramming the
same the dolphins were big I mean
they're you know not quite as long as
this table but they're you know they're
probably three to five hundred pounds
and they're maybe seven feet long and
they look tiny next to this short wow
that's wild that is wild yeah
occasionally you see they'll do drone
footage off of the coast of Malibu and
you see like a great white swimming
around they're just a few hundred yards
away from surfers and my son does that
with drones he goes out of his kayak and
foot in films them my friend Peter Peter
tia he say he's done a bunch of like
crazy endurance things and one of the
things he did he swam he swam to all the
islands in Hawaii and what to prepare
for this he had to do a lot of swimming
he lives in San Diego and swimming in
the coast out there and he was swimming
literally what do you say like a couple
days after that guy got bit in half oh
my god
yeah I think was just different you know
he wasn't scared ever I think my freaked
out but it was it was within a few days
of one of the one of the guys who got
bit in half down in San Diego what did
this happen the San Diego incident I
want to say it was 10 years ago
somewhere in the neighborhood of 10
years ago and then there was in one in
Santa Barbara that happened about four
years ago four or five years ago you
know occasionally they slip up I think a
person's a seal or something you know
most what's the time when I've been and
I've dealt with a lot of sharks before
it is that you could only usually only
get them around you if you're feeding
them and that feels so or horrible it's
just so unnatural I won't do it anymore
but weird right yeah it's just just it's
just not I couldn't be around it there's
some friends of mine that were feeding
it you know feet they're on a feed and I
was I was about
and 50 yards away and I thought I just
don't want to be part of it and I was
just filming on the reef and these
silver tips came over and I don't know
if they're excited by I was had a camera
with the strobes on it but they just
came and they were like attacking me and
I had a rebreather I died with a
rebreather so you can scream so I
started screaming as long as I could
through this thing but I was pushing
pushing them off and they were like
working together you could see it was
like packed you know like when we go
this way so he had a like I had these
these lights with these like an octopus
with four lights on it and I could push
him away but then one of the the guys
that we had brought over a tuna head and
lured him away but they were just it was
because of that is because they were
excited by you know the the feeding over
there so I don't even want to be in the
water these days when people are feeding
sharks because there's no joke when
you're under the water that's not your
you saw they could just run to run up a
tree no place to go no where to go you
feel helpless and that's their natural
environment and that's what they're
there for
they're there to clean up you know
anything this week anything that's
fucked up and then you know any seal it
get caught slipping there they're there
for population control I mean there's a
really powerful video off of the I'm
sure you probably seen and off of
Fisherman's Wharf in San Francisco we're
a bunch of tourists are there a boom
this great white snatches a seal right
in front of everybody
just just thunderous explosion of blood
and foam in the water and like whoa you
know a couple miles from where I live
yeah yeah I mean they're they're magic
that's a that's a sheep's beast I'm
supposed to have something just invited
me today to go out and be with great way
it's not diving just just to watch just
to watch there's a crazy video from I
think it was the Cape somewhere around
the Cape Cod where there's like a
20-foot one next to a boat and these
guys were in this boat and this this
great white just swims right up next to
them and they start fucking screaming
and freaking out and it's enormous it's
like 20 feet long the only point I like
if you don't feed them they're usually
fairly if you have if you're feeding
them or if you're a spear hunting then
they'll come near you they're dangerous
for severe hunters right yeah
what is this record-breaking year for
ARC's off cape cod yeah apparently
there's a lot of them out there now what
do you think that is that because of a
large number of marine mammals or or
drones we could actually see him now
yeah right yeah that's true yeah so
listen man I want to thank you for
coming here this is a very cool and if
people want to see the cove it's
available on boy
that's a good question now I think you'd
still see it on on iTunes you can buy it
the reason on Netflix not Netflix no but
iTunes it's available there Amazon can
you get it on Amazon yep
erasing extinction is a little bit
harder I'm not sure where you can get
that one but that's I think that's
better than the cove in a lot of ways
okay I'll check it out Oh watch it the
code was pretty powerful man yeah well
thanks please thank you my pleasure
thanks for being here thanks for having
me hi everybody
[Music]